<p>Our goal in this project is to use Web scraping, text cleaning, data visualization and natural language processing (NLP) techniques for gathering and analyzing data. Specifically, we are interested in UFO sighting data from the National UFO Reporting Center (NUFORC). The motivation for this project is the recent media coverage of UFO sightings, and the Congressional initiative to understand and explain these sightings in the interest of national security.</p>
<p>We begin with a detailed description of the Web scraping process, as well as the need to follow links provided in the initial scraping for non-truncated eyewitness accounts. We continue by proposing research questions we wish to answer using the data we collect, such as identifying the most commonly used phrases in eyewitness accounts. We also wish to ascertain how the people providing these accounts feel about what they are describing. Are the accounts objective or subjective? In the Literature Review section of our work, we elaborate on these questions further.</p>
<p>We provide a detailed discussion of the Python packages used in our analysis. Of particular interest to us are those packages that allow us to scrape the NUFORC Web site, to pre-process, or <b>clean</b> the data we pull from the Web site, as well as packages that allow us to create visualizations of our data, ascertain the <b>sentiment</b> and <b>objectivity</b> of the eyewitness accounts, and to determine the most commonly used phrases of the accounts.</p>
<p>We discuss at length the process of cleaning the different attributes of each observation, and our rationale for choosing particular techniques. Then we move on to discuss our data visualizations and how they help us to answer our research questions. Finally, we present our results and conclusions.</p>
<p>On December 12, 2020, Congress passed a $2.3 trillion Omnibus Appropriations and Coronavirus <a href="https://appropriations.house.gov/news/press-releases/house-passes-omnibus-appropriations-and-coronavirus-relief-package">Relief Package</a> that included the requirement for the Pentagon and other agencies to provide a report of all known information about UAPs (unidentified aerial phenomena) previously known as UFOs (unidentified flying objects).  As the 180-day deadline, June 19, 2021, approaches, the amount of sightings and media reports on UFOs have sharply increased.  A large volume of these are attributed to pranks and misidentified Starlink satellites or rare aircraft.</p>
<p>This project is aimed at applying Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques to summary details from UFO sightings reported to the National UFO Reporting Center (NUFORC).</p>
<p>For our cleaned dataset:&nbsp;<a href="https://1drv.ms/u/s!AsqtepjzYXd5ufdpLKtw2WFpuRI0wg?e=V0t2wu">sightings_cleaned_us.zip</a></p>
